Readme.md, before:

# SDR

A Software Defined Radio library written in Haskell

# Features
* Write software defined radio applications in Haskell
* Signal processing blocks can be chained together using the [Pipes](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/pipes) library
* Zero copy design
* Signal processing functions are implemented in both Haskell and C:
    * Optimised C implementations of signal processing functions that utilise SIMD instructions
    * Performance of Haskell signal processing functions within a factor of 2 of C (without SIMD) thanks to the vector library, stream fusion and ghc's LLVM backend
* Can filter, decimate and resample
* Helper functions for FIR filter design using window functions and plotting of the frequency response 
* FFTs using [FFTW](http://www.fftw.org)
* Line and waterfall plots using OpenGL
* FM demodulation
* PulseAudio sound sink
* [rtl-sdr](http://sdr.osmocom.org/trac/wiki/rtl-sdr) based radio source supported and other sources are easily added
* Extensive benchmark and test suites of signal processing functions

See https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr-apps for a collection of simple apps built on the library and https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr-demo for a demo application.

# Screenshot
A chunk of the FM broadcast spectrum. Captured with an RTLSDR device and drawn as a waterfall using the [Plot](https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr/blob/master/hs_sources/SDR/Plot.hs) module.

![Screenshot](../screenshots/screenshots/screenshot.png?raw=true)


# Getting Started

## Installation

You can install it from [Hackage](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/sdr):
```
cabal install sdr
```

Or, you can build it with cabal sandboxes:

```
cabal sandbox init
git clone https://github.com/adamwalker/dynamic-graph
git clone https://github.com/adamwalker/haskell-fftw-simple
git clone https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr
cabal sandbox add-source dynamic-graph haskell-fftw-simple sdr
cabal install sdr
```

## Example Applications

A collection of simple apps can be found [here](https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr-apps). These include an FM radio receiver, an OpenGL waterfall plotter and an AM radio receiver that can be used to listen to [Airband](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Airband).

Clone and build:

```
git clone https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr-apps  
cabal sandbox add-source sdr-apps
cabal install sdr-apps
```

To run the FM receiver:
```
.cabal-sandbox/bin/fm -f <your favourite station, e.g. 90.2M>  
```

To run the waterfall plot:
```
.cabal-sandbox/bin/waterfall -f <center frequency, e.g. 90.2M> -r <sample rate, e.g. 1280M>
```

To run the AM receiver:
```
.cabal-sandbox/bin/am -f <center frequency, e.g. 124.4M> 
```

# Usage

Documentation is available on [Hackage](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/sdr).

An FM receiver:

```haskell
import           Control.Monad.Trans.Either
import           Data.Vector.Generic        as VG 
import           Pipes
import qualified Pipes.Prelude              as P
import           Foreign.Storable.Complex

import SDR.Filter 
import SDR.RTLSDRStream
import SDR.Util
import SDR.Demod
import SDR.Pulse
import SDR.CPUID

--The filter coefficients are stored in another module
import Coeffs

samples    = 8192
frequency  = 105700000

main = eitherT putStrLn return $ do

    info <- lift getCPUInfo

    str  <- sdrStream frequency 1280000 1 (fromIntegral samples * 2)

    lift $ do

        sink <- pulseAudioSink

        deci <- fastDecimatorC info 8 coeffsRFDecim 
        resp <- fastResamplerR info 3 10 coeffsAudioResampler
        filt <- fastFilterSymR info coeffsAudioFilter

        runEffect $   str
                  >-> P.map convertCAVX 
                  >-> firDecimator deci samples 
                  >-> fmDemod
                  >-> firResampler resp samples 
                  >-> firFilter filt samples
                  >-> P.map (VG.map (* 0.2)) 
                  >-> sink
```

# Disclaimer
I started this project to learn about signal processing. I still have no idea what I'm doing.

Only tested on Arch Linux.

If you actually use this library for anything, let me know: adamwalker10@gmail.com

Commit message:

updated readme with supported systems

Readme.md, after:

# SDR

A Software Defined Radio library written in Haskell

# Features
* Write software defined radio applications in Haskell
* Signal processing blocks can be chained together using the [Pipes](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/pipes) library
* Zero copy design
* Signal processing functions are implemented in both Haskell and C:
    * Optimised C implementations of signal processing functions that utilise SIMD instructions
    * Performance of Haskell signal processing functions within a factor of 2 of C (without SIMD) thanks to the vector library, stream fusion and ghc's LLVM backend
* Can filter, decimate and resample
* Helper functions for FIR filter design using window functions and plotting of the frequency response 
* FFTs using [FFTW](http://www.fftw.org)
* Line and waterfall plots using OpenGL
* FM demodulation
* PulseAudio sound sink
* [rtl-sdr](http://sdr.osmocom.org/trac/wiki/rtl-sdr) based radio source supported and other sources are easily added
* Extensive benchmark and test suites of signal processing functions

See https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr-apps for a collection of simple apps built on the library and https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr-demo for a demo application.

# Screenshot
A chunk of the FM broadcast spectrum. Captured with an RTLSDR device and drawn as a waterfall using the [Plot](https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr/blob/master/hs_sources/SDR/Plot.hs) module.

![Screenshot](../screenshots/screenshots/screenshot.png?raw=true)


# Getting Started

## Installation

This library will only build and run on 64 bit x86 Linux systems.

You can install it from [Hackage](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/sdr):
```
cabal install sdr
```

Or, you can build it with cabal sandboxes:

```
cabal sandbox init
git clone https://github.com/adamwalker/dynamic-graph
git clone https://github.com/adamwalker/haskell-fftw-simple
git clone https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr
cabal sandbox add-source dynamic-graph haskell-fftw-simple sdr
cabal install sdr
```

## Example Applications

A collection of simple apps can be found [here](https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr-apps). These include an FM radio receiver, an OpenGL waterfall plotter and an AM radio receiver that can be used to listen to [Airband](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Airband).

Clone and build:

```
git clone https://github.com/adamwalker/sdr-apps  
cabal sandbox add-source sdr-apps
cabal install sdr-apps
```

To run the FM receiver:
```
.cabal-sandbox/bin/fm -f <your favourite station, e.g. 90.2M>  
```

To run the waterfall plot:
```
.cabal-sandbox/bin/waterfall -f <center frequency, e.g. 90.2M> -r <sample rate, e.g. 1280M>
```

To run the AM receiver:
```
.cabal-sandbox/bin/am -f <center frequency, e.g. 124.4M> 
```

# Usage

Documentation is available on [Hackage](https://hackage.haskell.org/package/sdr).

An FM receiver:

```haskell
import           Control.Monad.Trans.Either
import           Data.Vector.Generic        as VG 
import           Pipes
import qualified Pipes.Prelude              as P
import           Foreign.Storable.Complex

import SDR.Filter 
import SDR.RTLSDRStream
import SDR.Util
import SDR.Demod
import SDR.Pulse
import SDR.CPUID

--The filter coefficients are stored in another module
import Coeffs

samples    = 8192
frequency  = 105700000

main = eitherT putStrLn return $ do

    info <- lift getCPUInfo

    str  <- sdrStream frequency 1280000 1 (fromIntegral samples * 2)

    lift $ do

        sink <- pulseAudioSink

        deci <- fastDecimatorC info 8 coeffsRFDecim 
        resp <- fastResamplerR info 3 10 coeffsAudioResampler
        filt <- fastFilterSymR info coeffsAudioFilter

        runEffect $   str
                  >-> P.map convertCAVX 
                  >-> firDecimator deci samples 
                  >-> fmDemod
                  >-> firResampler resp samples 
                  >-> firFilter filt samples
                  >-> P.map (VG.map (* 0.2)) 
                  >-> sink
```

# Disclaimer
I started this project to learn about signal processing. I still have no idea what I'm doing.

Only tested on Arch Linux.

If you actually use this library for anything, let me know: adamwalker10@gmail.com
